---
title: 'Rouzbeh: Experimental Study and Modelling of Monolith Structures for Direct Air Capture'
date: 2025-09-15
permalink: /projects/phd/rouzbeh
excerpt: 'In this project, a series of monolith geometries is designed to investigate how structural variations influence CO₂ adsorption performance in DAC applications.'
tags:
  - postdoc-project
categories: 
---

CO₂ is a major greenhouse gas contributing to global climate change, making effective mitigation technologies increasingly important. Direct Air Capture (DAC), which removes CO₂ directly from ambient air, has gained substantial interest as a negative-emission solution. Monolithic adsorbents are particularly promising for DAC, as they can handle high gas flow rates with lower pressure drops than packed-bed systems. The material structure study and optimizing air-solid contactor design are therefore critical to improving the overall efficiency of DAC technology. In this project, a series of monolith geometries is designed to investigate how structural variations influence CO₂ adsorption performance in DAC applications. 

Advanced multiphysics simulations are employed to evaluate flow behaviour, pressure drop, and mass-transfer characteristics across different monolith geometries, enabling the identification of optimal designs for enhanced capture efficiency. Following the computational assessment, CO₂ sorbent materials are fabricated through high-precision 3D printing into the selected monolithic structures and subsequently functionalised with a polymeric amine. In parallel, a dedicated experimental setup is designed and constructed to evaluate the performance of the 3D-printed monoliths in conditions relevant to DAC operation. This setup enables rigorous testing of air-solid contact and adsorption kinetics, providing a comprehensive framework for validating the simulation outcomes. 

This project is a collaboration with <a href="https://skytree.tech/en-en" target="_blank">Skytree</a> and supported by <a href="https://topsectorenergie.nl/nl/maak-kennis-met-tse/tki-nieuw-gas/" target="_blank">TKI Nieuw Gas</a>.
